Now's the time.
The time to build.
Not everything that's built endures.
Not everything that's built remains.
Some things fall under pressure.
Some things fade with time.
Will what we build now endure?
Will what we build speak through the next generation.
We must be diligent, determined, and dedicated.
After all, his church must be built to last.
Man, amen.
Good morning.
Wow, happy new year.
What an exciting first Sunday of the year this is.
Man, a lot of times, many years,
On the first Sunday of the year is kind of a kind of a draggy Sunday.
Few people show up because they're kind of still sleepy from a busy, busy weekend and everything going on.
But you all showed up today, but better yet, the spirit of God, the presence of the Lord is in this place today.
Amen.
I believe that God wants to speak into our hearts in a real personal way today.
If you're here, perhaps you're checking out, encounter church for the first time, you saw a bunch of cars in the parking lot, or you saw a giant E on the building, you thought, what does that even mean?
And you pulled in, I'm glad that you're here.
Because I believe that God has something in store of
For you, I believe that you are here for such a time as this.
I believe that God wants to show up in your situation.
God wants to speak into your life.
God wants to lead you in a new direction.
You see today, we're kicking off a brand new series that's gonna lay the foundation of where we're going as a church over this next year.
We're simply calling the series built
to last.
Why are we calling it built to last?
Because I don't know about you, but I don't like to build things that don't last long.
I had a staff member several years ago, and he kind of had that same mentality.
Anytime he built something, it was done solid.
He built a small stage for a room upstairs, and as we were remodeling several years ago, we started moving that stage to a new area, found out that he had put
these really super long screws into the ground so that that stage didn't move and they were everywhere.
The stage was only this tall, but it was not moving, it was built to last.
And you know, I look at our lives and I think sometimes we're guilty of building our personal spiritual lives with God, but we're only using like a half inch screw and we're trying to build into a foundation
But the problem is somebody kicks that board and we kind of fall out of place because we're not really anchored.
We're not built to last.
I believe God wants us as a church to be built to last to the point that when the winds blow, when the struggles come, when the difficulty comes up against us, when we face the opposition, when the enemy raises his evil head, suddenly we're standing firm on a foundation and we're not moving because we have those lag bolts, not the little wimpy bolts, but the lag bolts into the foundation of God.
Amen.
Hey, I can't preach yet because that's not even my notes.
Hey, let me introduce myself.
My name is Pastor Chris.
I am honored that you're with us today.
This is a monumental day because this is a day where we, we open up the curtains, we pull back and unveil kind of where we're headed.
And over the next few weeks, we're not going to do it all today because I want to spend the next four weeks looking at this series built to last.
And I'm going to encourage you be here.
We are at a very exciting time as a church.
We are up about 90 or 100 people since last year at this time.
Yeah, amen.
Amen.
In 2025, we had a little over 120 people give their life to Jesus Christ, commit themselves for eternity to Him.
Amen?
We are within a month and a half, two months of sticking a big old shovel called a backhoe in the ground to build an 18,000 square foot expansion on a 12,000 square foot building.
Come on, God's good.
God's good.
Come on, stay with me.
Sometimes we forget the goodness of God.
We get comfortable in where we are.
We get comfortable in doing what we do.
Sometimes we even get comfortable doing ministry and we forget that without God, it's not possible.
If you're hanging out with us today, I want to encourage you, keep coming back.
Those of you that are watching online, if there's any way, come hang out with us.
I know that it's easy.
I know it's convenient just to watch online.
And some of you are there because you can't get here.
And man, enjoy this moment.
Enjoy the online service.
But if you can get here, there's something about being in this room with other believers.
There's something about, hey, I don't know about you, but I was getting excited up here this morning.
I know, I'm hoping that in this area, you guys are all probably thinking, pastor is crazy today.
It could be because I changed my coffee.
I don't know, I don't know, or it could just be the presence of God.
I think it's that one.
Instead, hey, I want to talk to you today about this idea of building something to last.
You see, the goal of this series is to lay the foundation of a solid building that we will build upon for generations to come, not just a physical building.
Yeah, over the next several weeks, we're going to talk about a building on and off.
But truly, it's more than just a physical building.
That's just a venue.
That's just an area for us to gather.
What we're going to build is build his church.
We're going to build it from the ground up.
We're going to say, God, whatever you want us,
to do it, and I wanna use a scripture, a conversation really, that Jesus was having with a man by the name of Simon.
We oftentimes refer to him as Peter, and this is the moment in time where there was a name change for Simon.
Look what it says in Matthew chapter 16.
It says, when Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, who do people say
that the Son of Man is.
Well, they replied, some say that you're John the Baptist, some others say that you're Elijah, and yet others say Jeremiah, or one of the other prophets.
Then he asked them, but who do you say that I am?
Let me pause for just a moment and kind of interject here.
Sometimes we're really guilty of giving a pad answer of what other people say.
Well, some say this,
Some believe that, but I wonder, what is the lag bolt that you're using to dig into the foundation?
What is anchoring you to the foundation of Jesus Christ?
Jesus looked at them and he asked a very personal question.
It's almost as if he says, yeah, I know what they're saying, but I'm not as much concerned about them as I am with you.
And he says, but who do you say that I am?
Simon Peter answered, you are the Messiah, the son of the living God.
Jesus replied, you are blessed, Simon, Son of John, because my father in heaven has revealed this to you.
You did not learn this from any human being.
Now I say to you that you are Peter, which means rock.
And upon this rock, I will build my church and all the powers of hell will not conquer it.
There's a couple things that are very important that we take note of this morning.
One thing I like to do when I'm diving into a message is I'll kind of look at different words in that scripture.
And I'll go back to the original language and I know it's kind of a maybe a nerdy thing to do, but hey, it's okay.
White and nerdy, it's okay.
Some of you remember the 80s song, it's okay.
It's all right, you can chuckle.
But as I begin to look at this, I look at the word rock because he says, Simon, you are Peter, which means rock, and upon this rock, and I wondered, is rock in both of those contexts?
Does it mean the same thing?
And I realize that the first time when he said Simon, you are Peter, which means rock, that is actually the word petros, and it means little rock.
Just a small little stone, nothing major.
So Simon Peter is not the rock, but a small rock, perhaps even amongst many.
And then he says, upon this rock, which is Petra, I will build my church.
And here the word Petra goes a little deeper.
It means a massive rock.
Peter, you are a small rock.
You are, you are a bloody small stone, but upon this rock, this massive rock, I will build my church.
And it's important for us to clarify here that Jesus is not saying that the church is built upon Peter, but rather the church is built upon the solid firm foundation of Jesus Christ.
We are building upon the confession that Jesus is in fact Christ, the son of the living God.
Peter even declared this in first Peter chapter two, where he says, Jesus is the living cornerstone.
He's the living cornerstone of God's temple.
Now we're gonna talk more about this in just a few minutes.
But you see, the moment we begin or even try to build the church on any person, any ministry, any group other than Jesus, the foundation will quickly crumble.
It's like we have the formula for the concrete wrong.
Come on, how many of you know if you don't mix the concrete right, it's not gonna last.
It's not going to cure properly, it's not going to sustain properly, it's not going to hold the pressure properly.
And sometimes, many times, the church world builds upon an individual or a group of people rather than building upon the true foundation of Jesus Christ.
We've watched it historically time and time again.
the church begins to crumble.
But when we build his church, when we build it on Christ, our solid rock, then and only then, will it be built to last?
Come on, always sing the song for years, on Christ the solid, rock I stand, all of the ground is sinking sand.
But the problem was,
Many times it was just a song we sang, but not a value we held to.
We were busy building upon our ministry, our department of the church.
Could I just tell you how many times I've seen church people bicker because they thought their department was more important than another department?
Can I just tell you, here's my belief on that.
Are you ready for this?
That's stupid.
My wife's not here this morning, so I'm kind of unhinged.
Yeah, she's not feeling well.
So, you know, you don't know what's going to come out of this mouth this morning.
She's not down here going, but if we would just really step back for a moment and say, Lord, less of me, more of you.
And that doesn't just go for myself, that doesn't just go for our leadership team, but it goes for every single person in this room.
God, if you would just help us, Lord, to step back and give you full control.
Because when we build upon the foundation of Jesus Christ, then and only then will it be built to last.
So our theme for 2026, some of you have probably figured it out or you looked at this new shirts in the lobby,
is build his church, build his church.
That's what we're going to use as our launching pad or our foundation to build upon all of this year.
Now, we're not looking at just building a building, we're not looking at building a name for ourselves or even attempting to be recognized.
Our goal is to build his church upon the rock, the Petra, the massive stone that the gates of hell
will not be able to shake or even conquer.
Come on, we don't want to just build a church that has a fancy Sunday morning service.
We don't want to just build a church that has a great youth group or a great kids ministry or an incredible worship team.
And I believe we have those.
But I believe that we need to build a church that's founded upon the Word of God.
Build a church.
that's founded on prayer.
And right now we're in a 21 day prayer and fasting.
If you haven't decided to jump in, it starts today.
Now is the time to jump in.
Spend time.
There's a prayer guide.
It's paper copy.
It's online.
It's available.
Participate in that.
fast in this season, fast for the church that we can build the church that God will use and the gates of hell cannot shake and cannot conquer.
But I'm gonna challenge you today.
Don't just be a spectator in this season.
But let's build his church.
Did you know that as you're building things, it goes a lot faster when you have people?
I kinda learned that this week.
So as a staff, we take a week between Christmas and New Year's off.
So normally my family and I, we go to Branson and we hang out at Branson this year.
We decided to stay home.
So my wife said, hey, if we're staying home, I got some things you should do.
That's so nice of her.
Yeah.
So I had to rip out carpet and tile.
And by the way, if you ever lay tile,
because ripping that stuff out is not easy.
So I'm ripping out tile, I'm ripping out carpet, I'm cleaning out some drywall, I'm prepping floors, I'm taking up tack strips and I'm putting new flooring and then I get to the end of the week and one of the guys in church calls and said, hey, are you still working on your project?
I said, almost done, but I have one area left and he came over and we knocked out in the day what would have taken me probably a day and a half by myself.
I know there's others that volunteered to help, and I apologize, I should have used help, but how have you guys know I can do it?
It's what we do, right?
I realized I got muscles I didn't know I had, and I also realized I'm not 21 anymore.
Where was I?
I got off track and really preoccupied there.
To build his church, we must rest on the fact
that Jesus is who He said He was.
He is who others said He was.
And He is who He proves to be time and time again.
To build His church is more than just a building expansion or even a renovation.
It's building people.
It's developing leaders.
It's reaching the broken.
It's mending the lives.
It's truly being the church inside these walls and outside these walls and setting a culture that God calls us to hold to.
It's building on the one and only source that will last.
But listen carefully, it will not happen by accident.
Pastor Joe kind of alluded to it in the legacy-giving moment this morning, but we're not going to walk in here one day and go, well, look, we tripped into God's presence.
We tripped into something that's going to last.
It's going to require people like you and people like me that are intentional
that have purpose, that have drive, that are dedicated, that are willing to sacrifice for something larger than themselves.
We've got to build not just for ourselves, but for generations to come.
I wonder, is it worth it?
Absolutely, it's worth it.
in light of eternity and the lives that will take with us.
It's worth every moment, every sacrifice, every dollar, every conversation, every moment of intentionality.
So today with that being said, I want to give you three truths that I want you to consider, even grasp today.
Number one is this.
Jesus is in charge.
Therefore we must follow His lead.
Come on.
You know, one thing that I just, I do not like.
I don't like it when someone is talking to me and I'm in the community.
And they're like, over there at your church and I'm like, hitting on my church?
Is it my, no, it's not my church.
It didn't say church to Chris.
This is not my church.
This is his church.
I'm just a vessel.
I'm just a person for the season of time that he says, I want you here.
Can I be honest with you, this wasn't my place where I thought I was gonna be.
Isn't that oftentimes how God works?
Man, I had another plan, but yet God said, huh, I got a better plan.
Oh, and I'm so glad that he had a better plan.
I'm so glad that he had a better plan.
And we stepping into that plan and we've seen God do some incredible things, but Jesus is in charge therefore we must follow
His elite, look what it says in verse 18, upon this rock, I, Jesus, will build my church.
This short statement, small little statement, should be a massive relief for every one of us today in the room or even watching online.
Why?
Because we're not responsible for the building process.
Isn't that great?
But here's what we are responsible for, our obedience in the process.
We're not responsible for making it happen.
We're not responsible for every detail and we're not responsible for every idea.
We're simply responsible for being obedient to his call, to his lead, to his command.
So here's what we must understand.
When Jesus made this statement, he was building upon this statement that Peter made in response to the question, who do you or who do people say that I am?
So the first thing that we've got to establish is who do you say Jesus is?
See, you can't build upon something you don't know anything about.
I wonder in your personal life, I'm not talking about encounter church as a church, I know what we,
I know the 16th fundamental truths of the similes of God that we hold tightly to.
I know the unwavering truth.
I know the mission of encounter church to love, reach and empower.
I've got all of that, but I wonder today, for you, who is Jesus?
I would challenge you in this season, in this time, as we're in the building process.
Would you come to the place of understanding that He is Christ, the Son of the living God?
He is the Savior of the world.
He's your friend.
He's your Redeemer.
He's your everything.
He's the one that can take you from darkness into the light.
He's the one that has given you the authority to stand the ground.
He's given the one that's given you the strength that when the winds begin to blow, you will not be wavered.
He's that lag bolt in life that holds you firmly to the foundation.
He is your everything.
So who is Jesus?
You see, if he's truly the foundation that we build upon, we must understand who he is and the Psalmist says it this way.
Jesus is the stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.
The stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.
Jesus is the cornerstone of our lives and of the church.
So what does that mean?
Well, the cornerstone on a building serves as a symbolic but also a practical purpose for the building construction.
Historically, the cornerstone was the first stone that was set in the construction of a masonry foundation.
This is the practical side of things.
It wasn't decorative.
It was an optional.
It was essential.
It mattered for the fact that the cornerstone had to be perfectly square.
It had to be level.
Why?
Because everything else would align to it.
I learned the importance of the beginning being aligned properly this week as two different rooms.
I was laying floatable flooring and I realized that first row had to be
straight.
If that first row was off, the rest of the room was a mess.
So it seemed like that first row took forever to do.
But I understand now the importance and we look at our relationship with Christ and I understand that it's going to take time.
It's going to take moments of dedication of getting to know Him, allowing His Word to be
rooted inside of who we are.
Getting to know His character, allowing the very nature that the Holy Spirit produces in us, according to Galatians 5, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control, not only to be placed in us, but to be nurtured so that they grow, that we overflow with the nature of God.
It's not gonna happen by happenstance.
It's not gonna happen by mistake, but we have got to build upon that cornerstone.
If the cornerstone is off, then everything that follows will be off.
Paul made this statement in 1 Corinthians, for knowing can lay any foundation other than the one who already have Jesus Christ.
Jesus is our cornerstone.
How many of us have been guilty of trying to build on things other than Jesus Christ?
We try to do it ourselves.
We try, we look at our lives and say, I've got enough talent.
Come on.
Man, I know a lot of church leaders that try to build the church off talent.
Did you know that talent runs out?
The old phrase, fake it till you make it?
It doesn't work with the kingdom of God.
It doesn't.
Oh, you can fake it for a little bit, but then the fake shows up.
Come on, we gotta be wholly dependent upon Jesus Christ.
We gotta allow him to lead us and let him guide us.
Proverbs 16, Solomon goes a little bit deeper and he says this, we can make our plans, but the Lord determines our steps.
I love the fact that God will show us which way to go.
And I believe that that happens and we're going to see this in just a moment.
I believe that happens in every moment of our lives if we'll just take the time to listen to Him.
It's not always those big, hyper-spiritual moments.
Sometimes it's just in the details of life.
I was talking to somebody about our floor, and there was one area that was really tough.
It was under a door.
It was the last piece and trying to put it in, and I had processed everything.
I had already messed up a couple pieces of flooring, and I was down.
I had one piece of flooring left come on somebody.
So what did I do?
I said, Lord, you're going to help me.
because talent's not working here because I ain't got it.
And God began to show me how I could lay that thing out and it went in and it's perfect.
But it's God.
We can try to have a plan on our own.
But when we listen to Him, when we turn it over to Him, He will determine those steps He'll lay that out for.
That leads us to the biblical side of things, Ephesians,
Two, verse 20, tells us that Jesus is the cornerstone of the church.
So if he's the cornerstone, then everything must fall in alignment with him.
He sets the direction.
He puts us in perfect alignment.
He levels everything out.
He directs our steps.
We must learn to follow.
What it says in Psalm 37.
Oh, this is good.
The Lord directs the steps of the God.
You guys are like, I already heard that, but listen to the rest.
He delights in every detail of our lives.
Come on, two things.
Number one, the beginning tells us that we don't have to be alone.
The Lord directs our steps.
We're not in this by ourselves.
We don't have to try to figure out how to build his church.
He will build the church.
We don't have to map out the course.
He will map out the course.
We must simply fall into the direction with the momentum that he has set in motion as the cornerstone of his church.
Secondly, and I love what comes next, he says he delights in every detail of their lives.
Now some of us struggle with this because to be honest, we don't like the details of our lives.
Don't raise your hand, but how many of you don't like your details?
Or go ahead and raise your hand, that's fine too.
Yeah, there's a lot of us, if we were being honest with ourselves today in this room and even online, there are a lot of us, we don't like the details of our lives.
Because there's flaws, there's struggles, sometimes we're stuck in a ruts,
Sometimes we're kind of like Paul, we do the things that we know that we shouldn't do, and we don't do the things that we know that we should do, and the things that we should do, we don't do.
We don't like the details, but God's going to direct those paths, and He loves the details.
He's ready, and He's will, and He's longing just to walk beside us.
But if we will learn to trust him, if we will allow our lives to come into alignment, not with our plans, but with his plans, we will truly build what's built to last.
We will build his church and the gates of hell will not be able to conquer it.
The second truth that I understand is this, building to last requires load-bearing walls.
Come on.
If I was to build a house today, as we build our expansion on the building, there's gonna be a lot of walls that are load-bearing walls.
There might even be some massive beams that are holding up structures that we have a larger open area.
Building to last requires load-bearing walls.
There are two components of this that I wanna look at.
Number one is historical.
The second is eternal.
Within the next couple of months, as I stated earlier,
The Sedalia location is going to stick a large shovel in the ground.
We're going to begin the construction process of our building expansion.
This is something that we've been working on for a couple of years now as a board.
We talked about this a couple of years ago in our annual business meeting.
We've been diligent to follow God's plan.
We've been working through the details.
We've been raising the funds.
We had the capital campaign about a year ago.
Today, and we're seeing a lot of those funds come in.
I'm gonna talk about that in just a couple of weeks ago.
We've had some large amounts come in over the last few weeks.
And truth be told, we've already brought in roughly $2.5 or almost $3 million.
Yeah, but we're not done.
It's gonna take us just shy of $5 million to get this thing built.
But have you know, all things are possible.
to those who believe.
How many would agree that God hasn't brought us this far to go, just kidding.
That's not how God works.
But we stand in excitement with an expectation of what God wants to do.
I'm gonna talk more in this series about what your involvement can be.
If you haven't jumped on board, those of you that have been faithful up to this point, can I say thank you?
Because what we're building is not just a physical building, what we're building is his church.
We're building something for the next generation.
In fact, somewhere, and I haven't figured exactly where, we're gonna build, we were in Joshua where we talked several times how they built a monument so that the next generation could remember the great things of God.
We're gonna do that someplace out here on this property for the new build, and we're gonna put,
build His church on there.
Because I want the next generation to remember the good things of God.
Never do we want a generation to come that doesn't know of the goodness of God.
What we're talking about in this idea is building
to last.
We're going to talk about the details in a couple of weeks.
But today, I want to hit on a couple of the key points.
Understand this, a new building is not about square footage.
It's not about walls or roofing.
Truthfully, it's more than a larger space to gather.
It's an avenue in which God can move.
It's a statement of faith as we lean into God more than ever before.
It's a place of godly encounter for generations to come.
What we're building here at the scenario location is not a name for ourselves.
We're building a hospital for the broken.
We're building a place for the lost to be found.
We're building a home for the hurting.
This is a place where families can grow, children can thrive, and disciples can be developed.
We're going to train leaders.
We're gonna send out spiritual warriors.
We've already sent out two missionaries over the last couple of years.
I believe that out of this church, encountered church, we're gonna see missionaries launched into other parts of the world.
I believe that we're gonna have pastors raised up that are gonna launch locations for encountered church, but even perhaps go into other areas.
We're going to enhance ministry here at encountered church by raising up our
department leaders and our serve team volunteers.
But this is going to take every one of us to rise to the challenge.
It's not about our ideas, but it's about his call to build his church.
I challenge you to join together as we physically and spiritually build his church.
The second idea
is developing leaders.
I have alluded to this just a little bit.
This is the eternal side.
Jesus said, upon this rock, I will build my church.
Jesus doesn't say upon this rock, I will build a church.
He doesn't say, I'm gonna use brick and mortar, I'm gonna put it all together.
But the original word here for church is the word ecclesia.
It refers to a meeting or a gathering of people who are called out or brought together for a purpose.
First Peter chapter two tells us that we are chosen and we are to be set apart.
2 Corinthians says that we are to come out and be separate.
John 17 tells us that we are not of this world.
Here's what I know.
As a church, we must not hide in the shadows.
We must be the church.
And the only way that we can build his church is from the ground up.
We must begin by building leaders, training disciples, and engaging the call.
We cannot be satisfied with a once a week inspirational speech.
We must engage more.
In 2026, we will be ramping up our disciple maker class at all locations.
This is not an evangelism class.
I know some in the past have seen discipleship and they've confused it with evangelism that had gone to the class and been a little disappointed
But what I want you to know is this class is discipleship.
It's raising up leaders.
It's developing ourselves.
It's equipping ourselves for the purpose God has called us to.
We'll be offering our new believers class at all locations.
It's a foundational class for every person who is new to the faith in Christ.
We want to walk with you in this journey.
We want to be with you in this process.
will intensify our efforts to train, to equip, and empower each and every serve team member.
Yes, we will continue to have our team nights where we all gathered together.
We had one last fall, but we're gonna have regular team gatherings for individual departments for training and connectivity.
Why?
Because we are only as good as that which we promote and prepare.
Let me see that again.
We are only as good as that which we promote and prepare.
After all, one of our core values is we pursue excellence because God deserves excellence.
If we believe this, then it has to be part of our culture.
God deserves our best.
Listen carefully.
God deserves our best, not our Sunday morning, last minute preparation.
Come on.
Oh, well pastor, I can prepare for that class last minute on Sunday morning.
It'll be fine.
They're listening to kids.
They don't know.
God does.
I can prepare for the worship team on Sunday morning on my drive in.
It'll be okay.
I can fake it till I make it.
We prepare ourselves.
And I'm not just picking on those.
I'm just talking in general.
A church that is built to last.
is built on the strength of the people.
Yes, Jesus Christ, you understand, but at this point we're talking about developing people, people who don't just believe in Jesus, but people who become more like Him.
Listen carefully, we can offer the best classes, the greatest training, but if we don't show up, if we the people do not show up, the class is done without results and we've built nothing of lasting value.
We must strengthen our discipleship pathway.
enhance our spiritual growth, value prayer, build strong biblical foundations, and engage in our counter community as we walk together step by step.
There are a lot of opportunities of connectivity every single week.
There's e-groups, there's extra groups, there's specific groups, there's groups everywhere, and you're trying to find a place to connect, just open up the app.
Go to the website, call the church.
We have, I'm certain, a place for you to connect.
And our third truth is this, building to last requires everyone building together.
It requires everyone building together.
Listen carefully, biblically speaking, there is no such thing as a silent bystander in the kingdom of God.
Did you know that?
We look at the early church in the book of Acts and we're gonna talk more about that in the next couple of weeks.
But the Bible says they were engaged with one another.
They were showing up daily.
Come on, some of us like, if I give God once a month, it's good.
No, they were showing up daily.
That's 31 times more than you.
Come on, let me move on.
I say this all the time and I want to say again today, things work better when they're plugged in.
It goes for your toaster, your microwave.
In fact, I learned that yesterday with the toaster.
I told Angie, I'm trying to toast a piece of bread.
And I said, Angie, why isn't the toaster working?
She says, is it plugged in?
I said, I think, nope.
She said, it only works if it's plugged in.
I said, yeah, I heard a guy talk about that once.
Things work better when they're plugged in.
Your toaster, your microwave, your TV, and yes, your spiritual walk, we were created to be part of something larger than ourselves.
Next week, we're gonna look at the mission of the church.
More specifically, we're gonna dive into the early church in the book of Acts.
And look what it says, all the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and a fellowship and to sharing meals, including the Lord's Supper and to prayer.
They were all in, they were fully engaged.
Why is this important to note?
Because what we see as a result of the dedication, as we see as a result of their seriousness of following God's call, is a church that began to flourish numerous times in the book of Acts.
And it says, and the Lord added to the church daily those that were being saved.
That's huge.
And this wasn't like one, two, three.
We celebrate 120.
People give the lives of Christ in 2025.
They were having thousands per day.
Could you imagine a service where a thousand people respond to the altar?
I'd be like, I need every leader in the house of the prayer partner today.
You know what I'm saying?
But it was because of their dedication.
The church began to flourish.
That's what it means to build His church.
This is a true plugged in model.
They grew because they were connected to a larger source.
They were connected to one another.
They were connected to the mission.
They understood the call.
They were rooted in the foundation of Jesus Christ.
Listen carefully, the days of the church connectivity being out of convenience must be behind us.
Let me just talk to this side for a moment.
The days of the church and our connectivity being at a convenience must be behind us.
It's time that we the church build his church with a conviction of following the call of God with a desire to do what God has said in motion of taking his mission as a church and moving forward.
John chapter 15.
Jesus said remain in me and I will remain in you.
For a branch cannot produce fruit if it's severed from the vine and you cannot be fruitful unless you remain in me.
Yes, I in the vine and you are the branches.
Those who remain in me and I in them will produce much fruit.
For apart from me, you can do nothing.
How many times do we get frustrated or even angry with God?
God, why is this not working?
God, why am I not fruitful?
God, why are things not prospering?
God, why are we not seeing advancement?
God, why is it not lasting?
And his responses, you're disconnected.
God hasn't walked away, but he's standing there patiently going, here I am.
I've got the plans.
I've got the mission.
I've got the call.
Will you accept it?
What we're building is for the next generation.
What we're building is to reach those outside of these walls.
What we're building is so that more people will go to heaven.
I don't know about you, but I wanna populate heaven.
We've learned over the last several weeks that there are like 69,000 people in our three counties of encountered church that are lost without Jesus Christ.
I wanna see us make a dent in that.
I'll be great to reach 69,000 people, but if we can just reach 10% of that, come on.
We have got to build
His church.
And I'm gonna challenge, I'm gonna invite you to go with us on this journey.
Not to be satisfied with just coming in on a Sunday morning and sitting.
And I love you being here, but I believe God's called you to something more.
Grow track is your next step.
We've got that today.
We've got it the first Sunday of every month, but I want to challenge you.
Don't put it off.
Some of you right now, first, when I said, grow check, you're like, okay, I could go to that.
And then I said, hey, we have it the first month, our first Sunday every month.
You went, okay, I'll wait till next month.
No, because what'll happen is next month, you'll go, I'll wait till the next month.
And the next month, you say, I'll wait till the next month.
When life slows down, then I'll do it.
Today.
I want to challenge you.
Just, let's flood that room today.
It's going to start here in about 15 minutes.
That gives you time to grab another coffee and go head on.
It's just right here to the left.
But that's your next step.
And those of you that are in ministry, I want to challenge you to duplicate yourself.
Well, Pastor, if I duplicate myself, what happens if they start doing it better than me?
Great!
Then I'll find something else for you.
Right?
We're not building our church.
We're building his church.
Would you buy your heads with me today?
God, we thank you right now for who you are.
Let me thank you, Lord, that we can lean into you.
Lord, that we don't have to do the building process by ourselves.
Let me thank you, God, that you've already set the course, that you delight in every detail of our lives.
Lord, help us, Lord, to be obedience to your call.
Lord, help us to build your church, not ours, but yours.
As we dig down and deep, as we root ourselves into the foundation, Lord, help us to wholly depend upon you in Jesus' name.
Amen.
With your heads bowed and your eyes closed.